# Pause Analysis Tool (v0.2a)
This is a tool that helps analyze keylog data generated by [InputLog 7](http://www.inputlog.net/overview/), specifically the pauses during the writing process. I'm currently writing a paper that uses InputLog 7 to compare the pauses while typing during monolingual and bilingual text production.

## Important:
Please note that this very early version requires the file "Schema_InputLog.xsd" to be present in the same directory as the compiled .exe file. I'm planning to change that eventually and deliver the necessary schema files in the compiled package, but I still haven't figured out the best way to do that.

## Why even make this tool? InputLog has built-in analytics.
While using InputLog 7, I found the pause analysis feature to be inadequate for my purposes. For example, it doesn't allow me to change the definition of what a 'pause' actually is, and it treats held down keys as a rapid-fire series of with missing end timestamps. Also, some particularly long pauses were missing in the analysis, either because they got removed as outliers or because of the way 'pauses' are treated by default. So, since there's way too many unknown factors in the default analysis, I decided to analyze the data on my own.

## The roadmap
<p>The first iteration of this tool will be pretty barebones and will contain only the things that I need for my paper. It will be a fairly simple command line program that spits out a .csv file containing the filtered and reformated data. It will filter out mouse movement and scroll events, and will reduce the data to input that happens within one specific window of MS Word. Anything that happens for example in a browser window is not considered part of the actual writing process, even though it might be related to it (e.g. research on a certain topic).</p>
<p>A second iteration (if I decide to make one) might support different data formats from other keylogging programs, customizable filter options, basic statistical analysis, and maybe some sort of visualization output. I might also consider adding a GUI.</p>

## Changelog
### v0.2a
* Added ability to customize the process window filter
* Added time interval sequence to the output .csv
* Improved handling of special characters and keys (still not complete)
* Fixed some naughty characters like double quote or backslash breaking the output file
